welcome to the news hour we start with
breaking news coming out of Gaza where
alzer's Gaza bureau chief wild dudan
Hamza has been killed in an Israeli
strike directly hitting the car that he
was traveling in while alad's wife son
daughter and Grandson were all killed in
an Israeli air strike that hit the house
back in October also killed in the
strike Mustafa tra who'd worked for AFP
news agency Let's cross over to Han
Mahmud who joined is now from Rafa in
southern Gaza hany what more can you
tell us about the attack on Hamza
[Music]
alud yes
uh very very very devastating news
indeed fe uh we were just uh earlier
hours this morning uh we were in in the
tent and it's just hard to imagine that
he's he's he's gone now but uh
Hamza with his colleague Mustafa abua
worked for AFP and the another
journalist that colleague of Hamza and
Mustafa were out documenting the
overnight attacks in uh on the road that
connects
hanun and ra when they were targeted by
an air strikes and uh there was just a
video circulating we we we just looked
at the video we we could not believe
that we were looking at the at Hamza and
his colleague because uh in the earlier
reports uh we reported about if people
in a car were targeted and uh speculated
that could be a family displaced family
coming from hanun or to our shock it was
was our colleague and um it just very
devastating to see that Hamza is a a
photo journalist and been working uh
with our with the team since the
beginning of of the war along with
Mustafa have been documenting all the
the tragedies and the destructions that
caused by isra Relentless air strikes
and and uh but to this point just
nothing seems to be protecting anyone
here not even the vest not even the
helmet not even the job that they're
doing very very shocking indeed we're
still absorbing this we're still
absorbing this of course honey I me we
can hear it in your voice it must be
incredibly difficult when you see a
friend and a colleague earlier in the
day and then all of a sudden you're
confronted with the news that you have
been obviously Hamza had been dealing
with the death of obviously very close
members of his family for the past
several weeks H how was he coping with
that in the conversations he was having
with
[Music]
you it was it was very difficult with
him Hamza had a great bond with his
mother uh particularly and every once in
a while he would be telling us about how
much he he he he misses his mom and how
much he he wished if she was still alive
because he has so much to tell her to
talk to her about his life his uh like
his father situations he he wanted
someone to be next to him every time
whenever possible for him uh Hamza was a
very uh very somehow discreet person who
wouldn't open up to anyone unless he has
he has built a good trust because every
time he would break in and crying crying
his heart out over the the passing of
his mother and his uh his brother his
his sister as well and his sister's son
whole family and everyone's he he would
be telling us how much void that created
in in in his life there is life has no
taste anymore because of uh uh he would
describe when this war is over how he
would go home and if the home is still
standing how would we go home who would
be checking on him who would be asking
about his favorite meal or favorite uh
presence in partic in special occasions
I mean he he would catalog all of these
things that uh a person who who enjoys a
special bond with his family particular
with his mother would be talking about
and would be try to talk him because we
know like if he if we are able to get
him to close what be happen he would be
more much more stronger to accept the
fact that it's already happening and the
best that he could be doing is to is to
pray for them and be the good example
the his mom always wanted him to be and
uh never crossed our mind that he would
be in he would end up in the same
situation as his family and his his his
siblings in the up with and uh our heart
goes for his father who has endured so
much uh not only his family member but
also the extended family were 10 more of
the larger the extended family D family
were killed as well and also his his
colleague and cooworker uh Sam Abu Daka
and and other colleagues at Al jazer
just hard hard to believe that this is
this is happening again nothing seems to
be protecting journalists and the job
they're doing on the ground documenting
all of these atrocities and crimes
committed by by the Israeli military and
of course honey while you're speaking to
me we're seeing the very latest pictures
of while uh at the side of uh his son's
body with other colleagues and friends
trying to console as you say a
heartbroken father who has has lost a
great deal and is one of hundreds of
thousands across the Gaza Strip that has
lost family members you touched on the
fact that you know there is no
protection for journalists there is no
protection for anybody in Gaza right now
despite the the the the title of safe
zones given by the Israelis how
difficult is it in your opinion right
now to even designate any area in Gaza a
safe
Zone oh it's it's hard there there safe
zones do not exist at all they only
exist in the the Israeli military
narratives it's just something for
publicity that they use something that
the that the Israeli mil military wanted
to look good in front of uh the foreign
media platform that they're doing
everything possible or because the US
has nicely asked them to uh not to kill
civilians and without putting the
pressure that would have caused the a
practical impact or changed the course
of the way they conduct uh this war it
just way for them to to look much better
while committing the crime there are no
safe zones I'm we're we're reporting
from the vicinity of this hospital and
it's not safe and within the past few
weeks we've seen how a sudden sudden air
strikes took place within the vicinity
where shrapnel it flew at a very high
speed and hit the roof of our tent and
almost killed one of our colleagues
inside the tent so it just the whole
narrative is false it's misleading and
inaccurate and and it's it's fueled by
by by a sentiment of of of of genocide
when you when you hear an isra official
military official describing an area
like the central area as an over a
crowded area full of terrorists this is
this is a justification a pretext for
whatever is going to happen next which
is already labeling and and painting
everyone as a terrorist including
children women and elderly civilians
largely so they it's a justification for
the way to K them same thing happens to
to journalists they're always labeled
they they always targeted and attacked
and it just it just happened to be their
their bad luck that there's some good
journalist here in the Gaza Strip are
covering their atrocities and the crimes
taking in place and and showing him to
the world I think that's that's the fact
that the
military and so many people's opinion
here that the fact they don't like that
there there's so much good journalism
going on covering these details tiny
details of the world you don't like this
fact and that's why uh journalists are
under constant attack this is not the
first time we've seen it colleagues
their entire fames wiped out and of
course uh again pictures that we being
the latest pictures of
while quite distraught obviously and one
can imagine he'd be in that situation
having lost his uh son again one of his
fin one of his sons and all of his
children hany you know as you were
talking to me and our viewers would be
wondering what that hum is we've been
describing that hum above your head for
n on three months now and it is an
Israeli drone uh it's surveying the area
they're incredibly threatening day in
Day Out 24 hours a
day yes indeed and I'm I'm standing
right now and hearing this drawn I'm
quite scared I'm quite scared because
there is no terms to this war there's
nothing is going to stop any official
any soldier in the chain of command
because the one who killed a 3-year-old
in a building with her family can do
anything because someone in the chain of
thought it's okay and now they think
it's okay and it's fine just to Target
anyone to kill anyone the fact that this
drone hasn't left the uh disguise of
this particular area is quite
threatening and risky and and often time
we we we talk to ourselves like is it is
it really safe to be out here and and
doing these reports and and that these
are questions that we we we challenge
ourself and we try to give a sensible
answer to what we're doing eventually we
we come to a conclusion this is part of
the the job that we're doing and it it
has to be done because otherwise it's it
the story won't be told and but the
there is a highrisk involv in it
particularly with a a a a drone that is
either ATT attack drone or surveillance
and it can be both a surveillance aerial
drone and at the same time an attack
drones uh conducting a aerial
bombardment that's what we see in the
the past few weeks here and in the
central area and in the northern Gaza St
in Gaza everywhere every inch is is
risky every inch is dangerous and every
inch there's a high possibility one can
die and given that this place is
overcrowded and packed a single air
strike a single even with the with the
smallest bomb can cause large number of
death because we're looking at the a a
sardine can right now everyone is packed
in this area the vast majority of the
population has been squeezed and and put
in pushed into this small area hany just
tell us a little bit more because we
expect now u a funeral service to be
conducted for wild Sun uh in in a few
hours time burial space is incredibly
difficult and also getting to these new
established cemeteries is also difficult
knowing there are snipers
everywhere this will formal barrial
procession do not exist since the the
beginning of the first week of of the
war people haven't been able to uh
to conduct formal Proper Burial unable
to offer the the loss prayer and Bo is
just double grieving for people not only
the situations are quite risky and and
people are losing their loved ones and
relatives and children but at the same
time they're unable to uh to mourn them
properly at least the the Mourning heart
where people can hold for the last time
their their their loved one their
relatives and say goodbye to them and
properly before they put them in the
grave and it just the fact that no
there's no burial formal proper burial
site and for the past week's people
resorted to burying people on the
sidewalk or in the middle of the road in
those little Islands or in the court
yard of public facility like hospitals
and evacuation centers and there are
great of stories of heart BR breaking
story of people who buried their loved
ones in the back Courtyard of of the
shipa hospital or the Indonesian
hospital or in evacuation centers and
those who who remained stranded in the
war zone in Gaza northern part and inhan
yunas could not bury their father or
mother or loved ones they Buri them in
the backyard of of their homes and and
waiting for this to to settle in order
to rest them in in peace in a in a
better place but it's increasingly
difficult even
uh the the the kind of of of of mass
that would would someone would look at
to to participate in these processions
is is not permissible given the
difficulty of the situations and for the
most part it's only exclusive to family
members because it is risky to be in
large Gathering out in the public in in
either a cemetery or wherever where they
decide to bury them uh but as of now we
we're not looking at a a formal burial
site it's going to be uh some somewhere
temporary until they're able to to move
them to a formal burial
site and these were strikes that
obviously hit W Sun uh early in in the
morning as such but the strikes have
continued through the night haven't
they yes overnight and early hours of
this morning in fact what Hamza and his
colleague were doing they were at a
sight of an over night uh attacks within
the vicinity of they documenting the the
the destruction the the great deal of
Destruction that caused by the air
strikes and talk to people who who were
around the vicinity of the area
displaced Palestinian those who uh who
were pretty much scared of the situation
have been displaced more than one time
and to see what are their options right
now to go where where to seek safety
where to seek Refuge as the air strikes
continue but they were at a site where
more than 10 people were killed
displaced Palestinians in inside
residential homes and and in other areas
as well the number gone from from 14
into now 18 in kanun for example for one
entire family at the same time a
massacre
was committed in jabalia
fuah fua area and abuba family of 60
people from one family old women and it
children and elderly were reside taken
shelter in one of the residential homes
when it was completely destroyed and the
number of people who are pulled from
under the rebels as of now 60 people
according to a sour from uh the
Indonesian hospital but again we're
talking about a hospital that is not
functioning but at least the they count
the numbers of those are being killed
and there are still more more children
more women under under the reubel so all
of this confirm uh the The Narrative
that there is no no single safe place in
Gaza including the empty northern
part obviously honey when you move away
from the live position that we see you
at to go and do your reporting as wildon
would have done as well there are
certain precautions and safety measures
are always put in place as part of the
uh Health uh safety protocols within the
media industry you have your flat
jackets which are also protect in theory
protect you from the front and back with
big very heavy metal plates I've worn
them myself I know exactly how heavy
they are if you're traveling in a car
what sort of identification do you have
around that car inside the car on top of
the car that would have at least
identified the car as as a media
car
yes well we have a a set of rules here
before leaving the tent you have to have
your as long as you are doing your job
here you have to wear your vest you have
to put your helmet as well as if you go
on a field you have to be wearing your
your vest that says press the one that
has a protective material in it as well
as the car is labeled it says a press it
says TV very very visible to who whoever
is is watching or is monitoring your
movement so the fact that all of this
was obvious uh to the the drawn or the
whoever conducted the the strike it's
obvious that it was on purpose it was
was done on purpose to to send a message
to to to scare other journalists from uh
doing their job and that's that's the
outcome that the only possible outcome
we're looking at people were in a car
three journalist they had the car
labeled by a TV and press they wore
their vest they had all of their uh
safety gear equipment on everything was
done based on uh how how the book says
pretty much following the rules uh
just that did did not save them from
doing that and I mean we seen the
example with Sam when he was reporting
un covering he had all of his safety
gear on but that also did not uh protect
him that doesn't say doesn't say that
those gears are not required or they're
not doing the job but at least they
given the identification now the the
problem is when the other side recognize
you as a journalist you're doing your
job and yet decide to go ahead with the
with with the strike and push the button
and put an end to your life that's
that's the problem the problem is not in
the the identification the problem is
how you perceived uh uh by the Israeli
military and how
are journalists from Al jazer perceived
I suppose it is the question we have to
ask because if Wild's family have been
targeted and we know that our cameraman
uh from our sister channel from Arabic
was also killed just a few days
ago it does raise questions doesn't it
about where we stand as an organization
trying to tell the story on the ground
one of the very few that can tell it to
the international
audience this well good journalism good
reporting authentic and factual
reporting is a threat a threat to
Netanyahu a threat to his government a
threat to the Israeli military who is
heavily relied on Western media
platforms and telling their side of the
story their their their narratives and
pretty much push for that narrative over
and over and largely ignores the the
pled of of Palestinians under these
heavy bombs that's that's the problem so
when you when you offer good journalism
you are you are a Target because you
uncover uh What uh the world largely
hasn't heard in years about what's going
on I mean the fact that it's always
being label as the bad guys the
terrorists the one who who have hate the
one who don't like Jews that want all of
this and and all the sudden uh good
journalism and Reporting showing uh the
other side of the story that in fact
this is not what is happening the label
is false the The Narrative is inaccurate
and I think that's that's where it's
becoming a threatening and um
unfortunately people pay paying heavy
price for for telling a a true
story how difficult is it for you hany
to actually
understand the fact that you know as the
as the days progress you hear more and
more news not just about people in Gaza
across of the whole strip you know
suffering so very badly but then you
know when you hear news of of somebody
that you know so very well and you have
to try and impart this news as you are
to me and to our audience in in
completely impartial way to explain the
grief that really why is why is is
feeling just as a father he he's like
thousands of fathers in Gaza right
[Music]
now indeed then and just we are we we're
feeling we're in the same position we
have families we have children and we
constantly worry about their their
safety their livelihood and and we we
seeing what what's happening to Al his
family and and the fact that this is his
this is third time dealing with with a
tragedy uh a family member close family
member is just it makes the whole
situation even worse again the level of
fear is great the risk is greater uh are
we threatened yes it it we are
threatened and we know we are at trisk
we know we are a Target we know we are
at any moment we could and and I'm going
to let you into something I mean we had
this conversation uh me and my family
and we we talked about if possibly if
something happened this is this is what
you need to be doing because it it's
imminent you can't because you you don't
know what's going to happen you don't
know if you're leaving you're you're
home and coming to the tent safe you
don't know if you're going back safe you
don't know what's going to happen if you
are going on a field work like what
Hamza and and his colleague were were
doing at earlier hours of this morning
but it it just it's a real thing it's
it's not something that we that we we
brag about or something that we we were
happy to show but it's a real Danger
real risk real lifethreatening
situations taking place every minute of
our life and that's this is the uh the
truth and it happens to be this way it
happens to be in the most difficult
situations ever uh and and that's the
the the pressure that we have because
between reports constantly word if it's
not you could be my family could be a
journalist being punished by his getting
his family targeted like what happened
with M asrai our colleague from Al jazer
where his entire family more than 21
member of his family including his
parents and Grandparents were killed and
other children and women uh mammad
Aban an audio engineer who was was was
his family was targeted the entire
family as well and so on it just it's
either the the journalists becoming the
Target or the family they the target to
punish the journalist and to deter them
from uh from doing their job and that's
the war on all
level the the level of killing the kind
of of of the tragedy created all to
deter Palestinian to their saying
something anti occupation or anti-war or
any of that of that sort just stay there
for a moment tany let me just uh let our
viewers understand the pictures that
they're actually seeing right now here
on Al jazer if you are joining us here
it's
1325 GMT sorry uh 1025 GMT and the
breaking news that we're uh letting you
know about is that the son of wild dud
our bureau chief of Al jazer uh in Gaza
has lost his son due to an Israeli uh
shelling of the car that his son and at
least two other journalists were
traveling in uh as they were uh
reporting on a overnight story um within
uh the Gaza strip uh
wild wild that dude our Bureau Chief's
family had also been targeted uh just
several weeks ago his wife uh and
several members of his close family had
been killed a huge tragedy for him uh
and for the bureau the pictures that
you're seeing there are of him
identifying his son's body um it will be
taken for burial shortly these are the
latest pictures coming into as I'm sure
you can imagine um it's always difficult
to get live pictures
of those sorts of incidents straight
away we been speaking to hanni Mahmud
our correspondent uh who's also um been
filling Us in on the background uh to
Hamza uh hann's friend Wild's son um
working for the AFP news agency for
those viewers who are just joining us
hany could you just let them know again
why uh humza was in that car and what
was the story that he was reporting
on yes we all know R has becoming
increasingly dangerous and risky not not
only for for uh uh for local residents
but but also for displaced families
who've been evacuating for for the past
few weeks coming all to ra is becoming
packed overcrowded with so many people
asleeping neither on the side walk or in
evacuation centers or in the homeless
because the area is is is running out of
space and the fact that ra designated as
a safe area for people yet there really
military conducting these massive
Relentless air strikes and and it's been
equally if we compare ra to other parts
of the G has been equally bombed and
large number of people have been killed
and tragically the vast majority of
those who are killed happen to be
displaced Palestinian just summoning
into uh the the Israeli uh Nar native of
of safe Zone just put a a huge hole in
it that it's inaccurate it's misleading
and and very contradictory to to what's
going on uh on the on the ground but
Hamza and his colleagues were doing
field work documenting the the level of
Destruction that was caused by an over
uh an overnight air strike that targeted
two residential homes on near the road
that connects hanun City with with rafan
it just the every air strike has an
aftermath it's not only causing great
deal of damage to and destroy the
targeted home but also it causes severe
damage to the surrounding uh area if you
count five to seven residential homes
become un unlivable unsuitable for
people to to stay in and and that's the
kind of of of documentation that we in
our work with trying to to cover to see
that it's not about just the house but
the greater deal of damage to the point
that have become increasingly consistent
with with the Israeli Narrative of
making Gaza uninhabitable making create
conditions that life becomes impossible
for people to even think back think of
going back or staying here uh when when
when the war is over all of this part of
of of what's going on so they were they
are do documenting
these crimes and caused by the
destruction more displacement more
people are k more people under under the
rebels when when they were targeted and
their work put they put an end to their
work because that that kind of
documentation that for the Israeli
military shouldn't be on on on TV
shouldn't be uh going to Media because
it's it's harmful to them it's harmful
for the narrative
because soon enough they're losing The
credibility of of the many allegations
that are being thrown and and and and
they go un challenged that's the problem
honey do stay with us uh we'll be back
with you shortly uh in Rafa uh